README.md, before:

# DAIDE++

| Feature | Tools |
|---|---|
| Languages | [![Python 3.7](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.7-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370/) [![Markdown](https://img.shields.io/badge/markdown-%23000000.svg?logo=markdown&logoColor=white)](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) |
| Git | [![Conventional Commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/Conventional%20Commits-1.0.0-%23FE5196?logo=conventionalcommits&logoColor=white)](https://conventionalcommits.org) |
| Formatting | [![Black](https://img.shields.io/badge/Code%20Style-black-000000)](https://github.com/psf/black) [![docformatter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docstring%20Formatter-docformatter-fedcba.svg)](https://github.com/PyCQA/docformatter) [![numpy](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docstring%20Style-numpy-459db9.svg)](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html) [![Imports: isort](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20Imports-isort-%231674b1?style=flat&labelColor=ef8336)](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) |

Repo to store universal communication specification and parser.

- The original DAIDE specification is [here](daide-syntax.pdf)
- The working markdown document that will included DAIDE enhancements is [here](daide-specification.md)
- The machine-parsable grammar can be found in [this `.py` file](./daidepp/parser/grammar.py)

## Pull Requests

Three files should be updated whenever making a PR:

- [`grammar.py`](./daidepp/parser/grammar.py): the machine-readable grammar
- [`node_visitor.py`](./daidepp/parser/node_visitor.py): the visitor object to parse a message
- [The daide markdown specification](./daide-specification.md): the human-readable specification

Commit message:

feat(parser)!: made daidepp into installable python package

README.md, after:

# DAIDE++

| Feature | Tools |
|---|---|
| Languages | [![Python 3.7](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.7-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370/) [![Markdown](https://img.shields.io/badge/markdown-%23000000.svg?logo=markdown&logoColor=white)](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) |
| Git | [![Conventional Commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/Conventional%20Commits-1.0.0-%23FE5196?logo=conventionalcommits&logoColor=white)](https://conventionalcommits.org) |
| Formatting | [![Black](https://img.shields.io/badge/Code%20Style-black-000000)](https://github.com/psf/black) [![docformatter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docstring%20Formatter-docformatter-fedcba.svg)](https://github.com/PyCQA/docformatter) [![numpy](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docstring%20Style-numpy-459db9.svg)](https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html) [![Imports: isort](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20Imports-isort-%231674b1?style=flat&labelColor=ef8336)](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) |

DAIDE parser using [parsimonious](https://github.com/erikrose/parsimonious). Parsimonious is a python package that uses "a simplified sort of EBNF notation" to define a grammar. The parser currently supports all 130 levels of DAIDE.

- The original DAIDE specification is [here](daide-syntax.pdf)
- The working markdown document that will included DAIDE enhancements is [here](daide-specification.md)
- The machine-parsable grammar can be found in [this `.py` file](./src/daidepp/grammar.py)

## Use

Using the grammar in grammar.py, you can create a parse tree from a DAIDE press message or reply. The nodes of the parse tree can be visited to return something more useful. The visiting rules for each of the nodes of the parse tree are defined in node_visitor.py.

Example:

```python3
>>> from daidepp import create_daide_grammar, daide_visitor
>>> grammar = create_daide_grammar(level=130)
>>> message = 'PRP (AND (SLO (ENG)) (SLO (GER)) (SLO (RUS)) (AND (SLO (ENG)) (SLO (GER)) (SLO (RUS))))'
>>> parse_tree = grammar.parse(message)
>>> output = daide_visitor.visit(parse_tree)
>>> print(output)
('PRP', ('AND', [('SLO', 'ENG'), ('SLO', 'GER'), ('SLO', 'RUS'), ('AND', [('SLO', 'ENG'), ('SLO', 'GER'), ('SLO', 'RUS')])]))
```

If the DAIDE token is not in the grammar or if the message is malformed, the parser will just thrown an exception. We're currently working on returning a list of unrecognized tokens instead of just erroring out.

## Pull Requests

Three files should be updated whenever making a PR:

- [`grammar.py`](./src/daidepp/grammar.py): the machine-readable grammar
- [`node_visitor.py`](./src/daidepp/node_visitor.py): the visitor object to parse a message
- [The daide markdown specification](./daide-specification.md): the human-readable specification
